#1 介绍
## 1.1 什么是比特币？
Bitcoin is a collection of concepts and technologies that form the basis of a digital money ecosystem. Units of currency called bitcoin are used to store and transmit value among participants in the bitcoin network. Bitcoin users communicate with each other using the bitcoin protocol primarily via the internet, although other transport networks can also be used. The bitcoin protocol stack, available as open source software, can be run on a wide range of computing devices, including laptops and smartphones, making the technology easily accessible.
“比特币”是一些概念和技术的集合，这些技术和概念形成了“一种数字货币生态系统”的基础。“比特币”也是货币单位，用于在比特币网络的参与者之间的存储和转移价值。比特币用户之间使用比特币协议进行通信，主要是通过互联网传输比特币协议，但其它传输网络也可以。比特币协议栈是开源软件，可以运行在各种计算设备上，包括笔记本电脑和手机，因此使该技术易于使用。

Users can transfer bitcoin over the network to do just about anything that can be done with conventional currencies, including buy and sell goods, send money to people or organizations, or extend credit. Bitcoin can be purchased, sold, and exchanged for other currencies at specialized currency exchanges. Bitcoin in a sense is the perfect form of money for the internet because it is fast, secure, and borderless.
用户可以在网络上转移比特币来做任何事情，就像使用普通货币一样，包括买卖商品、汇款或提供贷款。比特币可以以专门的货币交易所购买，出售和兑换为其它货币。在某种意义上，比特币是互联网上货币的完美形式，因为它快速、安全、无边界。

Unlike traditional currencies, bitcoin are entirely virtual. There are no physical coins or even digital coins per se. The coins are implied in transactions that transfer value from sender to recipient. Users of bitcoin own keys that allow them to prove ownership of bitcoin in the bitcoin network. With these keys they can sign transactions to unlock the value and spend it by transferring it to a new owner. Keys are often stored in a digital wallet on each user’s computer or smartphone. Possession of the key that can sign a transaction is the only prerequisite to spending bitcoin, putting the control entirely in the hands of each user.
与传统货币不同，比特币完全是虚拟的。没有物理货币，甚至本质上也没有数字货币。这种货币隐含在交易中，交易将机制从付款人转移给收款人。比特币用户有自己的密钥，允许他们证明对比特币（在比特币网络中）的所有权。使用这些密钥，他们可以签署交易以解锁价值，并将其转移给新的所有者来实现对它的消费。钥匙通常存储在用户的计算机或智能手机上的数字钱包中。拥有可以签署交易的密钥是消费比特币的唯一条件，这使控制权完全在每个用户手中。

Bitcoin is a distributed, peer-to-peer system. As such there is no "central" server or point of control. Bitcoin are created through a process called "mining," which involves competing to find solutions to a mathematical problem while processing bitcoin transactions. Any participant in the bitcoin network (i.e., anyone using a device running the full bitcoin protocol stack) may operate as a miner, using their computer’s processing power to verify and record transactions. Every 10 minutes, on average, a bitcoin miner is able to validate the transactions of the past 10 minutes and is rewarded with brand new bitcoin. Essentially, bitcoin mining decentralizes the currency-issuance and clearing functions of a central bank and replaces the need for any central bank.
比特币是分布式的P2P系统。因此，没有“中央”服务器或控制点。通过“挖矿”过程创造比特币，“挖矿”是在处理比特币交易时，竞争寻找一个数学题的解。比特币网络中的任何参与者（即，任何运行全比特币协议栈的设备）都可以是矿工，它们使用计算机的处理能力来验证和记录交易。平均每10分钟，一个比特币矿工能够批准过去10分钟的交易，并获得新比特币奖励。本质上，比特币挖矿使“中央银行的货币发行和计算功能”去中心化了，从而取代了中央银行。

The bitcoin protocol includes built-in algorithms that regulate the mining function across the network. The difficulty of the processing task that miners must perform is adjusted dynamically so that, on average, someone succeeds every 10 minutes regardless of how many miners (and how much processing) are competing at any moment. The protocol also halves the rate at which new bitcoin are created every 4 years, and limits the total number of bitcoin that will be created to a fixed total just below 21 million coins. The result is that the number of bitcoin in circulation closely follows an easily predictable curve that approaches 21 million by the year 2140. Due to bitcoin’s diminishing rate of issuance, over the long term, the bitcoin currency is deflationary. Furthermore, bitcoin cannot be inflated by "printing" new money above and beyond the expected issuance rate.
“比特币协议”包括了内置的算法，可以在网络中调整挖矿工作。矿工们要执行的处理任务的难度是动态调整的，因此，平均而言，每10分钟就有一个人能成功，而不管那时有多少矿工和多少处理能力在竞争。这个协议还规定，每隔4年，发行的新比特币被减半，这将比特币的总量限制为低于2100万。结果是，流通中的比特币数量遵循一个容易预测的曲线，到2140年将达到2100万。由于比特币发行速率的下降，长期来看，比特币是通货紧缩。此外，无法通过这种方法使比特币通胀：以超过预期发行速率来“印刷”新钱。

Behind the scenes, bitcoin is also the name of the protocol, a peer-to-peer network, and a distributed computing innovation. The bitcoin currency is really only the first application of this invention. Bitcoin represents the culmination of decades of research in cryptography and distributed systems and includes four key innovations brought together in a unique and powerful combination.
在幕后，比特币（bitcoin）也代表：这种协议、一种P2P网络、一种分布式计算创新。“比特币货币”只是这个发明的第一个应用。比特币代表了数十年来在密码学和分布式系统领域研究的高潮，它包括四个主要创新，形成了一个独特和强大的组合。

Bitcoin consists of:
- A decentralized peer-to-peer network (the bitcoin protocol)
- A public transaction ledger (the blockchain)
- A set of rules for independent transaction validation and currency issuance (consensus rules)
- A mechanism for reaching global decentralized consensus on the valid blockchain (Proof-of-Work algorithm)
比特币包括：
- 一个去中心化的P2P网络						（比特币协议）
- 一个公共交易账本							（区块链）
- 一套规则，用于独立的交易确认和货币发行		（共识规则）
- 一个机制，用于对有效区块链实现全球去中性化共识	（工作量证明算法）

As a developer, I see bitcoin as akin to the internet of money, a network for propagating value and securing the ownership of digital assets via distributed computation. There’s a lot more to bitcoin than first meets the eye.
作为一名开发人员，我认为比特币类似于货币互联网，它是一个网络，通过分布式计算来转播价值和保证数字资产的所有权。比特币的内容比初看时要多得多。

In this chapter we’ll get started by explaining some of the main concepts and terms, getting the necessary software, and using bitcoin for simple transactions. In following chapters we’ll start unwrapping the layers of technology that make bitcoin possible and examine the inner workings of the bitcoin network and protocol.
在本章中，我们先解释一些主要的概念和术语，获得必要的软件，并使用比特币进行简单的交易。在后面章节中，我们将展开使比特币成为可能的技术层次，并考察比特币网络和协议的内部工作。

**Digital Currencies Before Bitcoin
比特币之前的数字货币
**

The emergence of viable digital money is closely linked to developments in cryptography. This is not surprising when one considers the fundamental challenges involved with using bits to represent value that can be exchanged for goods and services. Three basic questions for anyone accepting digital money are:
1. Can I trust that the money is authentic and not counterfeit?
2. Can I trust that the digital money can only be spent once (known as the “double-spend” problem)?
3. Can I be sure that no one else can claim this money belongs to them and not me?
可行的数字货币的出现与密码学的发展密切相关。这并不奇怪，因为人们要考虑面临的主要挑战：使用比特来表示价值，并且能用于交换商品和服务。
任何接受数字货币的人，都要面对三个基本问题：
1. 我能否相信这些货币是真实的，不是伪造的？（真钱）
2. 我能否相信这些数字货币只能花费一次？（不能双重支付）
3. 我能否确认没有其他人能声称这些钱属于他们？（只属于我）

Issuers of paper money are constantly battling the counterfeiting problem by using increasingly sophisticated papers and printing technology. Physical money addresses the double-spend issue easily because the same paper note cannot be in two places at once. Of course, conventional money is also often stored and transmitted digitally. In these cases, the counterfeiting and double-spend issues are handled by clearing all electronic transactions through central authorities that have a global view of the currency in circulation. 
纸币的发行者通过使用复杂的纸张和印刷技术不断打击假冒问题。物理货币很容易解决双重支付问题，因为同一货币不会同时在两个地方。当然，传统货币也经常以数字方式存储和转移。在这些情况下，假冒和双重支出问题是通过中央权威机构来解决：它有流通货币的全局视图，它来清算所有电子交易。

For digital money, which cannot take advantage of esoteric inks or holographic strips, cryptography provides the basis for trusting the legitimacy of a user’s claim to value. Specifically, cryptographic digital signatures enable a user to sign a digital asset or transaction proving the ownership of that asset. With the appropriate architecture, digital signatures also can be used to address the double-spend issue.
数字货币没法利用油墨技术或全息条码，而密码学为信任用户的价值主张的合法性提供了基础。具体来说，加密数字签名能使用户对数字资产或交易进行签名，以证明对该资产所有权。使用适当的体系结构，数字签名还能用于解决双重支付问题。

When cryptography started becoming more broadly available and understood in the late 1980s, many researchers began trying to use cryptography to build digital currencies. These early digital currency projects issued digital money, usually backed by a national currency or precious metal such as gold.
当密码学1980年代后期开始变得更广泛得可用和被理解时，许多研究人员开始尝试使用密码学来构建数字货币。这些早期的数字货币项目发行了数字货币，通常有国家货币或贵金属（如黄金）支持。

Although these earlier digital currencies worked, they were centralized and, as a result, were easy to attack by governments and hackers. Early digital currencies used a central clearinghouse to settle all transactions at regular intervals, just like a traditional banking system. Unfortunately, in most cases these nascent digital currencies were targeted by worried governments and eventually litigated out of existence. Some failed in spectacular crashes when the parent company liquidated abruptly. To be robust against intervention by antagonists, whether legitimate governments or criminal elements, a decentralized digital currency was needed to avoid a single point of attack. Bitcoin is such a system, decentralized by design, and free of any central authority or point of control that can be attacked or corrupted.
虽然这些早期的数字货币可以用，但它们是集中式的，因此，很容易受到政府和黑客的攻击。早期的数字货币使用中心化的票据交易所定期清算所有交易，就像传统的银行系统一样。不幸的是，在大多数情况下，这些新兴的数字货币被忧心忡忡的政府所瞄准，最终被剥夺了生存权。有些是由于母公司突然破产，导致在巨大崩溃中失败。为了在对手干扰的情况下保持稳定性，无论是合法政府还是犯罪分子，都需要一个去中心化的数字货币，以避免单点攻击。比特币就是这样一个系统，它被设计为区去中性化，并免受任何中央权威或控制点被攻击或破坏。
